
# Asset Management System

Motivation : While I am working as an IT executive for my company I need to keep track of every new IT purchase ie : laptop, routers, switches, Attendance machines, Printers and so on. Since we are a logistics company we have many hubs all around Bangladesh. So , we send IT accessories to every hubs and these movements are mandatorily recorded in excel file. We need to update this file even when an extra RAM is installed in any single laptop being used on a distant village hub. So maintaining this is tough. This is how I got motivation for working on such a system that will keep record of all the IT accessories received by different hubs through mobile camera scans.


Features: Since smartphones are ubiquitous and can be used to scan QR/barcodes, we plan to make this an app based system primarily. Becasue, a web based/ PC based app might need an extra handheld scanner for the user to scan its barcode. Ow, by the way, did I mention that, the system will also manifest the assets to the system with its specs and assign a backend generated barcode/ asset id to the asset itself. The asset id label pdf can be printed out and labelled to the asset with a thermal sticker/a4 paper. 

The lifecycle of the asset ID starts with the asset manifestation and ends when the actual asset with this ID is finally unable to be sold again/used .

Every user will sign up with email and login using user id and password . Super admin will be able to manifest essentially. If Super admin wants, can give the right to manifestation to any user needed. Manifestation can be done two ways, in bulk or single. Manifestation will need reserved keywords for proper asset type detection. For example, for laptop, keyword will be IT-LT , here IT is department that is concerned to that asset type, and LT is laptop's short code. AD-CH, reserved keyword for chair. An asset about which ADMIN department is concerned and so on. Hopefully that is clear. 
After manifestation, the labels will be attached ,and scanned to midmile for linehauling them to the desired destination. Once the destination receives the package, user on that facilty will also scan the assets barcodes as recevied logging into their own User id. 

Here the manifestation file will have data of many types.Every major asset bought by the procurement team, will be manifested in this system and get assigned with a barcode/asset id generated by the system.

Backend will be on Firebase . Android app will be written on Java . 

I need many technical advices on this because i might have missed out on some important functional requirements of the system and also need suggestions on the proper tools/technology requirements for establishing this system

Thanks for reading ! 

